# PI-DeepONet

This repository contains the code for training a Physics Informed DeepONet on the 1D slab considered in [Sahadath et al](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/00295639.2025.2586955). The model is built using Jax, building on the architecture presented by [Wang et al](https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.abi8605), whose code is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/PredictiveIntelligenceLab/Physics-informed-DeepONets).

## Model

The model is defined in `model.py`. The DeepONet with weights and biases is defined by the function class `PI_DeepONet`, which initializes the branch and trunk net using the function `MLP`. Training is performed using the method `train`. The `train`method performs training steps by calling the `step` method, which calculates loss through the `loss` method. The `loss` method gives the weighted sum of the `loss_data`, `loss_res` and `loss_bcs` methods. Here the `loss_data` method corresponds to the data loss function of an ordinary DeepONet. The physics informed loss is represented by `loss_res` and `loss_bcs`, which correspond to the PDE residual and boundary loss, respectively. The PDE residual is calculated by the method `residual_net`. The dot product of the DeepONet is taken using the method `operator_net`. The `model.py` script also contains the `DataGenerator` class, which uses Pytorch's `torch.utils.data.Dataset` method to organize training data in batches, along with some helper functions `build_data_arrays`, `build_bcs_arrays` and `build_res_arrays` that provide input/output pairs for training.

## Data Generation

Data is generated for the model using `data_generator.py`, which is currently set up to generate data for the cases described by Sahadath et al. First, we generate a set of source functions `Q(x)` using a GRF defined by the functions `sample_grf` and `squared_exp_kernel`. The 1D transport equation is solved using `solve_sn_1d`, using diescrete ordinates with Gauss-Legendre quadrature, as described by Sahadath et al. The solver function is called in `generate_dataset`, which calls the GRF and generates solutions for each `Q(x)`. The resulting datasets are stored in the `datasets` folder.

## Training

Training is done in `training.py`, which calls on the methods of `model.py` to train the model on the data generated by `data_generator.py`. The resulting model is stored as a `.pkl` file.

## Plotting

The trained model is loaded in `plot.py`. Here, the loss curves are plotted along with some sample predictions using plotting methods described in `helpers.py`.
